New docs for the updated monitor status page (#25615)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/monitors/status/events.md

All events generated by your monitor appear on the status page, showing the groups' name, event type, and timestamp. The Event timeline also includes downtime and audit trail events.

For each event, you can access Quick actions and view related assets, like dashboards and logs.

## Event details section

To explore each individual event for more information, including associated tags and action:

1. From the monitor status page, scroll down to the **Event timeline.**   
2. Click on an event in the timeline to view event details.  
   
Use the event details to understand monitor alerts and identify root causes. This information supports responder workflows and helps you stay informed about ongoing situations. 

### Take action to remediate

With Quick Actions, you can take action without leaving the Status page. Responders save time since the context is automatically added.

| Action | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| Mute  | Create a [downtime][3] to mute monitor alerts. |
| Resolve | Temporarily set the monitor status to 'OK' for its next evaluation |
| Declare Incident | Escalate monitor alerts with [Incident Management][4]. |

> | Create Case | Create a [case][5] if this needs further investigation and you want to correlate the alert to other Datadog products. |

Reviewer: > | Create Case | Create a [case][5] if this needs further investigation and you want to correlate the alert to other Datadog products. |

I would rephrase this with: "Create a [case][5] to keep track of this alert investigation without leaving Datadog."

Author: ```suggestion
| Create Case | Create a [case][5] to keep track of this alert investigation without leaving Datadog. |
```

| Run Workflow | Run [Workflow][6] Automation with predefined snippets to run mitigation actions. |

> | Start a Collaboration | Start a [CoScreen][7] meeting and collaborate with your team. |

Reviewer: >| Start a Collaboration | Start a [CoScreen][7] meeting and collaborate with your team. |

We are going to enable this only for a few customers so we can skip this in the public doc

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Event details section

To explore each individual event for more information, including associated tags and action:

1. From the monitor status page, scroll down to the **Event timeline.**   
2. Click on an event in the timeline to view event details.  
   
Use the event details to understand monitor alerts and identify root causes. This information supports responder workflows and helps you stay informed about ongoing situations. 

### Take action to remediate

With Quick Actions, you can take action without leaving the Status page. Responders save time since the context is automatically added.

| Action | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| Mute  | Create a [downtime][3] to mute monitor alerts. |
| Resolve | Temporarily set the monitor status to 'OK' for its next evaluation |
| Declare Incident | Escalate monitor alerts with [Incident Management][4]. |
| Create Case | Create a [case][5] if this needs further investigation and you want to correlate the alert to other Datadog products. |
| Run Workflow | Run [Workflow][6] Automation with predefined snippets to run mitigation actions. |
| Start a Collaboration | Start a [CoScreen][7] meeting and collaborate with your team. |

> ## Event troubleshooting section

Author: @SimoneT-DD do you have an image of this or can you link to examples of this section?

---
title: Status Events
further_reading:
- link: "service_management/events/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Event Management"
---

<div class="alert alert-info">Status Events is part of the <a href="/monitors/status/status_page">provisional Monitor Status Page</a>. If you are using the legacy status page, see the <a href="/monitors/status/status_legacy">Status Page (Legacy)</a> documentation.</div>

## Overview

{{< img src="/monitors/status/status_page_event_details.png" alt="Monitor status page displaying event details" style="width:100%;" >}}

> All events generated by your monitor appear on the status page, showing the groups' name, event type, and timestamp. The Event timeline also includes downtime and audit trail events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All events generated by your monitor appear on the monitor's status page, showing the groups' name, event type, and timestamp. The Event timeline also includes downtime and audit trail events.
```
Or "monitor status page," but in this case I was trying to make it clear that each monitor has its own status page.

> For each event, you can access Quick actions and view related assets, like dashboards and logs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each event, you can access quick actions and view related assets, like dashboards and logs.
```
To me, this feels like a general enough reference to be lowercased, but "Quick Actions" also works

## Event details section

> To explore each individual event for more information, including associated tags and action:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To explore each individual event for more information, including associated tags and actions:
```

1. From the monitor status page, scroll down to the **Event timeline.**   
2. Click on an event in the timeline to view event details.  
   
Use the event details to understand monitor alerts and identify root causes. This information supports responder workflows and helps you stay informed about ongoing situations. 

### Take action to remediate

> With Quick Actions, you can take action without leaving the Status page. Responders save time since the context is automatically added.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Quick Actions, you can take action without leaving the status page. Responders save time since the context is automatically added.
```
Just for consistency

| Action | Description |
| :---- | :---- |
| Mute  | Create a [downtime][1] to mute monitor alerts. |

> | Resolve | Temporarily set the monitor status to 'OK' for its next evaluation |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Resolve | Temporarily set the monitor status to 'OK' for its next evaluation. |
```

Reviewer 2: It seems like status is often communicated in code instead of quotes, change all instances of 'OK' to `OK`?

| Declare Incident | Escalate monitor alerts with [Incident Management][2]. |
| Create Case | Create a [case][3] to keep track of this alert investigation without leaving Datadog. |
| Run Workflow | Run [Workflow][4] Automation with predefined snippets to run mitigation actions. |

### Resolve

> You can resolve a monitor alert from the status page [Header][10] or Event details sections. Resolving from the Event details section only affects the group related to the selected event while resolving from the Header resolves all groups in the alert and sets the monitor status to 'OK' (all groups).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can resolve a monitor alert from the status page [Header][10] or Event details sections. Resolving from the Event details section only affects the group related to the selected event, while resolving from the Header resolves all groups in the alert and sets the monitor status to 'OK' (all groups).
```
